.NET Maui app tutorial (#1391)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2023-06-13-net-maui-authentication.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Add Authentication to .NET MAUI Apps"
author: laura-rodriguez
by: contractor
communities: [mobile, .net]
description: "Add authentication to your MAUI applications and keep your .NET mobile apps secure!"
tags: [net, mobile]
tweets:
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
image: blog/net-maui-authentication/social.jpg
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-net-maui-example
---

Have you ever been inspired by a colleague's work and decided to explore a new tool or technology? That's what happened to me when my colleague, Andrea Chiarelli, wrote a blog post "[Add Authentication to .NET MAUI Apps with Auth0](https://auth0.com/blog/add-authentication-to-dotnet-maui-apps-with-auth0/)." As someone who is always looking for ways to improve my skills and stay up-to-date with the latest trends in technology, I was intrigued by his post and decided to try MAUI, but this time using Okta for user authentication.

> In this tutorial, I'll walk you through the steps of integrating Okta into an MAUI application, including a few troubleshooting tips for issues I encountered. Hopefully, my experience will inspire and help others who want to make their MAUI applications more secure with Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, I'll walk you through the steps of integrating Okta into a MAUI application, including a few troubleshooting tips for issues I encountered. Hopefully, my experience will inspire and help others who want to make their MAUI applications more secure with Okta.
```

### Configure dependency injection for the Okta client

Open the `MauiProgram.cs` file and add the highlighted content. The `MauiProgram` class should look like the following:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using OktaMauiSampleApp.Okta;
using OktaClientConfiguration = OktaMauiSampleApp.Okta.OktaClientConfiguration;

namespace OktaMauiSampleApp;

public static class MauiProgram
{
    public static MauiApp CreateMauiApp()
    {
        var builder = MauiApp.CreateBuilder();
        builder
            .UseMauiApp<App>()
            .ConfigureFonts(fonts =>
            {
                fonts.AddFont("OpenSans-Regular.ttf", "OpenSansRegular");
                fonts.AddFont("OpenSans-Semibold.ttf", "OpenSansSemibold");
            });

#if DEBUG
        builder.Logging.AddDebug();
#endif

        // 👇 new code
        builder.Services.AddSingleton<MainPage>();

        var oktaClientConfiguration = new Okta.OktaClientConfiguration()
        {

>     // Use "https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default" for the "default" authorization server, or

Reviewer: Nit: Fix spaces for comments

            // "https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/<MyCustomAuthorizationServerId>"

            OktaDomain = "https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default"
            ClientId = "foo",
            RedirectUri = "myapp://callback",
            Browser = new WebBrowserAuthenticator()
        };

        builder.Services.AddSingleton(new OktaClient(oktaClientConfiguration));
        // 👆 new code
        return builder.Build();
    }
}

```

> ### Update the MAUI application to support sign in and signout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Update the MAUI application to support login and logout
```

Reviewer: Using login and logout to be consistent with the terminology we're already using

Author: Sign in and sign out is in our standards. Good catch, I'll update the other language in this post to match (code doesn't have to match though)

                    Clicked="OnLogoutClicked"
                    HorizontalOptions="Center"
                    Margin="0,30"/>

                <ListView x:Name="UserInfoLvw">
                    <ListView.HeaderTemplate>
                        <DataTemplate>
                            <Grid HeightRequest="50">
                                <Label LineBreakMode="NoWrap"
                                       Margin="10,0,0,0" Text="Claims" FontAttributes="Bold"
                                       FontSize="18" TextColor="Black" HorizontalOptions="Center"
                                       VerticalOptions="Center"/>
                            </Grid>
                        </DataTemplate>
                    </ListView.HeaderTemplate>
                </ListView>

            </StackLayout>
        </VerticalStackLayout>
    </ScrollView>

</ContentPage>
```

Now, open the `MainPage.xaml.cs` and replace the content with the following:

```csharp
using IdentityModel.OidcClient;
using IdentityModel.OidcClient.Results;
using OktaMauiSampleApp.Okta;

namespace OktaMauiSampleApp;

public partial class MainPage : ContentPage
{

>             int count = 0;

Reviewer: Nit: Fix spaces

            HelloLbl.Text = $"Hello, {loginResult.User.Claims.FirstOrDefault(x => x.Type == "name")?.Value}";
        }
        else
        {
            await DisplayAlert("Error", loginResult.ErrorDescription, "OK");
        }
    }

    public async void OnLogoutClicked(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        var logoutResult = await _oktaClient.LogoutAsync(_authenticationData.IdentityToken);

        if (!logoutResult.IsError)
        {
            _authenticationData = null;
            LoginView.IsVisible = true;
            HomeView.IsVisible = false;
        }
        else
        {
            await DisplayAlert("Error", logoutResult.ErrorDescription, "OK");
        }
    }
}
```

The UI logic is very simple. We have a `StackLayout` called `HomeView` that will be displayed once the user is authenticated. This component has a "Log Out" button and a `ListView` where we show the user's claims. Once the user logs out, the `HomeView` component is hidden, and the "Log In" button is displayed again.

That's all here! It's time to make the platform-specific updates and try our MAUI application.

### Add platform-specific changes to handle authentication

> For this tutorial, I'll focus on Android, but you can easily refer to [Andrea's article](https://auth0.com/blog/add-authentication-to-dotnet-maui-apps-with-auth0/) to add the missing bits to support iOS.

Reviewer: Many instead of Andrea's article, you want to refer it as an Auth0 by Okta post as you did above? Not sure what the rule is

Author: Yup, good catch, I'll change this one too

namespace OktaMauiSampleApp
{
    [Activity(NoHistory = true, LaunchMode = LaunchMode.SingleTop, Exported = true)]
    [IntentFilter(new[] { Android.Content.Intent.ActionView },
        Categories = new[] {
            Android.Content.Intent.CategoryDefault,
            Android.Content.Intent.CategoryBrowsable
        },
        DataScheme = CALLBACK_SCHEME)]
    public class WebAuthenticationCallbackActivity : Microsoft.Maui.Authentication.WebAuthenticatorCallbackActivity
    {
        const string CALLBACK_SCHEME = "myapp";
    }
}
```

This class contains the intent filter that accepts `myapp` as the scheme for the callback URI.

Finally, open the `AndroidManifest.xml` file located in the same folder and add the content highlighted below to make the intent visible. Your `AndroidManifest.xml` should look like the following:

```csharp
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <application android:allowBackup="true" android:icon="@mipmap/appicon" android:roundIcon="@mipmap/appicon_round" android:supportsRtl="true"></application>
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />

>     <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />			 <!-- 👇 new code -->

Reviewer: Nit: Fix spaces

  <queries>
    <intent>
      <action android:name="android.support.customtabs.action.CustomTabsService" />
    </intent>
  </queries>
  <!-- 👆 new code -->

</manifest>
```

Woohoo! It's time to test the Android version application. It should look like this:

{% img blog/net-maui-authentication/demo.gif alt:"Completed application" height:"400" %}{: .center-image }

## Keep experimenting with MAUI, .NET, OAuth, and OIDC

This tutorial provides you with the fundamental steps to create your Okta client and add authentication with Okta to your MAUI applications. You can go further and try authentication on other platforms as well! I'd love to know what platform you're using; let me know in the comments below.

> You can get the complete sample code for this MAUI authentication project from [GitHub](https://github.com/laura-rodriguez/okta-maui-sample-app).

Reviewer: Should we refer to the official GH repo here?
